<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
	<title>Acknowledgments</title>
	<body>
		
		<p>This implementation guide was developed with the support and sponsorship of the National EMS Information System
			(NEMSIS), directed by Clay Mann. Additional clinical guidance was provided by Dr. Greg Mears. NEMSIS is
			supported by the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, the Centers for Disease Control, and the
			Health Resources and Services Administration, as well as dozens of other government agencies, universities, and
			professional organizations.</p>
		
		<p>The HL7 Clinical Interoperability Council, Emergency Care, and Structured Documents working groups sponsored the 
			project. Special thanks go to Sean Muir, whose assistance was indispensible in making available the rich 
			functionality of Open Health Tools' Model Driven Health Tools.</p>
		
		<p>This document contains informtion from the following sources:</p>

		<p>&#169;2010 ANSI. This material may be copied without permission from ANSI only if and to the
			extent that the text is not altered in any fashion and ANSI’s copyright is clearly noted.</p>

		<p>SNOMED CT&#174; is the registered trademark of the International Health Terminology Standard
			Development Organization (IHTSDO).</p>
			
		<p>This material contains content from LOINC&#174; (http://loinc.org). The LOINC table, LOINC codes, and
		LOINC panels and forms file are copyright &#169; 1995-2010, Regenstrief Institute, Inc. and the Logical
		Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC) Committee and available at no cost under the
		license at http://loinc.org/terms-of-use .</p>

		<p>Certain classes contained in this Interoperability Specification conform to specifications
			defined in Health Level Seven (HL7<tm tmtype="reg"/>) HL7<tm tmtype="reg"/> 
			Implementation Guide for CDA&#0169; Release 2: IHE Health Story Consolidation, DSTU Release 1.1. 
			No part of the material may be
			copied or reproduced in any form outside of the Interoperability
			Specification documents, including an electronic retrieval system, or
			made available on the Internet without the prior written permission
			of Health Level Seven, Inc. Copies of standards included in this
			Interoperability Specification may be purchased from the Health Level
			Seven, Inc. Material drawn from these standards is credited where used.</p>
		<p>HL7<tm tmtype="reg"/> and CDA<tm tmtype="reg"/> are the registered trademarks of Health Level Seven International.</p>
	</body>
</topic>
