<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topicId" xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Important Notes:</title>
  <body>
    <p/>
    <p> The 2015 Health Level Seven V3 Publication is copyrighted by Health Level Seven, Inc. 
      (HL7) and is therefore protected by the Copyright Law of the United States and copyright 
      provisions of various international treaties. The effect of such laws and treaties is 
      that you may not, without a license from Health Level Seven, Inc., copy or distribute 
      HL7's publication Product.</p>
      
    <p>HL7 licenses its standards and select IP free of charge. <b>If you did not acquire a free
        license from HL7 for this document</b>, you are not authorized to access or make any use of
      it. To obtain a free license, please visit <xref
        href="http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/index.cfm" format="html" scope="external"
        >http://www.HL7.org/implement/standards/index.cfm</xref>. </p>
    <p>
      <b>If you are the individual that obtained the license for this HL7 Standard, specification or
        other freely licensed work (in each and every instance "Specified Material")</b>, the
      following describes the permitted uses of the Material. </p>
    <ol>
      <li>HL7 INDIVIDUAL, STUDENT AND HEALTH PROFESSIONAL MEMBERS, who register and agree to the 
        terms of HL7’s license, are authorized, without additional charge, to read, and to use 
        Specified Material to develop and sell products and services that implement, but do not 
        directly incorporate, the Specified Material in whole or in part without paying license 
        fees to HL7.
        <p>INDIVIDUAL, STUDENT AND HEALTH PROFESSIONAL MEMBERS wishing to incorporate additional 
          items of Special Material in whole or part, into products and services, or to enjoy 
          additional authorizations granted to HL7 ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS as noted below, must 
          become ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS of HL7.</p></li>
      <li>HL7 ORGANIZATION MEMBERS, who register and agree to the terms of HL7's License, are 
        authorized, without additional charge, on a perpetual (except as provided for in the full 
        license terms governing the Material), non-exclusive and worldwide basis, the right to (a) 
        download, copy (for internal purposes only) and share this Material with your employees and 
        consultants for study purposes, and (b) utilize the Material for the purpose of developing, 
        making, having made, using, marketing, importing, offering to sell or license, and selling 
        or licensing, and to otherwise distribute, Compliant Products, in all cases subject to the 
        conditions set forth in this Agreement and any relevant patent and other intellectual 
        property rights of third parties (which may include members of HL7). No other license, 
        sublicense, or other rights of any kind are granted under this Agreement.</li>
      <li>NON-MEMBERS, who register and agree to the terms of HL7’s IP policy for Specified 
        Material, are authorized, without additional charge, to read and use the Specified Material 
        for evaluating whether to implement, or in implementing, the Specified Material, and to use 
        Specified Material to develop and sell products and services that implement, but do not 
        directly incorporate, the Specified Material in whole or in part.
        <p>NON-MEMBERS wishing to incorporate additional items of Specified Material in whole or part, 
        into products and services, or to enjoy the additional authorizations granted to HL7 
        ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS, as noted above, must become ORGANIZATIONAL MEMBERS of HL7.</p></li>
    </ol>
    <p>Please see <xref href="http://www.hl7.org/implement/standards/index.cfm" format="html"
        scope="external">http://www.HL7.org/legal/ippolicy.cfm </xref>for the full license terms
      governing the Material.</p>
    <p><b>Ownership</b>. Licensee agrees and acknowledges that <b>HL7 owns </b>all right, title, and
      interest, in and to the Trademark. Licensee shall <b>take no action contrary to, or
        inconsistent with</b>, the foregoing.</p>
    <p><b>Licensee agrees and acknowledges that HL7 may not own all right, title, and interest, in
        and to the Materials and that the Materials may contain and/or reference intellectual
        property owned by third parties (“Third Party IP”). Acceptance of these License Terms does
        not grant Licensee any rights with respect to Third Party IP. Licensee alone is responsible
        for identifying and obtaining any necessary licenses or authorizations to utilize Third
        Party IP in connection with the Materials or otherwise. Any actions, claims or suits brought
        by a third party resulting from a breach of any Third Party IP right by the Licensee remains
        the Licensee’s liability.</b></p>
    <p>Following is a non-exhaustive list of third-party terminologies that may require a separate license:</p>
    <p>
      <table id="table_jls_r3x_bt">
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
          <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>Terminology</entry>
              <entry>Owner/Contact</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Current Procedures Terminology (CPT) code set</entry>
              <entry>
                <p>American Medical Association</p>
                <p><xref
                    href="http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/solutions-managing-your-practice/coding-billing-insurance/cpt/cpt-products-services/licensing.page"
                    format="html" scope="external"
                    >http://www.ama-assn.org/ama/pub/physician-resources/solutions-managing-your-practice/coding-billing-insurance/cpt/cpt-products-services/licensing.page</xref>?</p>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>SNOMED CT</entry>
              <entry>International Healthcare Terminology Standards Developing Organization (IHTSDO)
                  <xref href="http://www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct/get-snomed-ct" format="html"
                  scope="external">http://www.ihtsdo.org/snomed-ct/get-snomed-ct</xref> or <xref
                  href="mailto:info@ihtsdo.org">info@ihtsdo.org</xref></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>Logical Observation Identifiers Names &amp; Codes (LOINC)</entry>
              <entry>Regenstrief Institute</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>International Classification of Diseases (ICD) codes</entry>
              <entry>World Health Organization (WHO)</entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
    </p>
    
  </body>
</topic>
